### Assignment 1

Cristopher Story

In order to solve this crossword puzzle I used multiple data structures. The myDictionary class included an Arraylist to contain the dictionary file. I also utilzed to Strinbuilder arrays to contain the words for the crossword. Stringbuilders would make it more efficient to append letters. As well as a Hashmap to include the letters scores that were matched with a key. This contains and puts functions are o(1) and the keys can be mathced to a value.

My algorithm utilized backtracking and pruning to fill out the crossword puzzles. I used switch cases to see whether the board was at a +,-,or a letter. the letter being the default. If it was at a plus it would iterate through all letters of the alphabet to find a match. A match was chosen once it was deemed valid. The string it deemed valid depending on where we are on the board. If it was valid it was appended then put to the next coordinate. Since the next coordinate was called recursively if the next spot could not find a valid letter it would backtrack deleting the letter and trying to find a different letter. The pruning of the search happened in the isvalid method. If the string that was forming was not a prefix than it was not valid and no time was wasted. The prefix was done in the mydictionary class.

I faced a wide variety of coding issues while completing this project. One being the is valid method. Getting the write if statements took a long time. It took me some time to figure out how to check both the row and column at the same time. To debug I used print statements to see the flow of the code. Also, getting more familiar with scanners and stringbuilders by reading through the java api. Another issue I faced was trying to get the crowssword puzzle to work for minus signs in o(1) time. Due to time constraints I was only able to get it to work in o(n). I worked on the minus by drawing pictures and going through them manually. Another hiccup I faced was with the search prefix method. I did not realize it was wrong and therfore was looking in the wrong place for my errors. It was not until I used the Dicttest file to see the error. That was the biggest issue I faced for this project.



| runtimes   | for varius files in the program |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| 3 seconds  | test3b.txt                      |
| 0 seconds  | test3a.txt                      |
| 13 seconds | test4a.txt                      |
| 11 seconds | test5a.txt                      |
| 0 seconds  | test4d.txt                      |
| 12 seconds | test4b.txt                      |
| 10 seconds | test4f.txt                      |



Program first goes thorugh and adds a dictionary file which is o(N) with n being 17271 words. Then imports the crossword which is o(n^2) with n being 4. For each square in the crossword puzzle it is o(n) to choose from the 26 letters. Then for each letter it is checked if is valid. The search prefix checks through the dictionary then for each letter in the word. This is o(n^2). The longest letter check being 4 letters for 17271 words. 2*O(n)+2*O(n^2)


